---
title:  "Denise Jacobs: The Creativity (R)Evolution"
date: 	2013-11-10 21:10:00 +0100
categories: conferences oredev
tags: 	
---


The creativity evangelist Denise Jacobs coaches people in the tech field through
creativity. In her keynote, she talked about creativity, betterness and habits.
She's a pro-speaker, meaning that her presentation is more or less what you could
expect from an "American motivational speaker". Professional, but so streamlined.
Interesting, but leaving you with a feeling of "what did she say...really?".

One thing I had a really hard time digesting, was her (as well as last morning's
keynote speaker's) habit of having the crowd obey on command. I mean, what's the
thing? Denise had people doing the wave, then scream "I'm awesome" several times,
then turn around and talk to each other. To each other?? Come on, you should know
that we Swedes are introvert and cold and really not into talking to each other.

No, really. If you are all about talking about how awesome we are, and how we are
in charge of our own lives and situation etc...I really do not see the point with
you expecting us to follow your every order. Yikes!

You are awesome. I am awesome. We are awesome. Let's go out and change the world
(Denise was actually presented as a woman who wants to change the world). My GOD,
this is getting so worn out. TED and all you professional speakers really need a
new thing.

Denise had a nice take on self-terrorism, though, and how focusing on preventing
bad things from happening can instead prevent good things from happening as well,
or anything from happening at all. An interesting take on a topic I think has been
talked about and dissected to the brink of tiredness, especially in this context
where I felt that it was chosen mostly for the sake of sensation, rather than to
fit the theme. It may work better in the US.

My biggest takeaway from this session was a nice passage about how you should ban
the word "no" and replace it with "yes, and...". For instance, you say "Let's go
paint the Eiffel Tower green to celebrate, S:t Patrick's Day". Instead of killing
your mojo with a "no", I should reply "Yes, and if we manage to get that activity
green lighted by the city of Paris, lets add lights and stuff to it when Christmas
comes, turning into a Christmas tree". Well, you get the point. "No -> yes, and"
was a good example of some of the more concrete topics I liked about the keynote.

All in all, I found this to be a fair keynote presented by a professional speaker,
though still not that much more than yet another inspirational talk, stuffed with
things you by now have heard a hundred times before, once more verbalized by yet
another rhetorically skilled American who wants to change the world. It's too easy.

A Swede, for instance, would never ever present a keynote like this. We would be
too embarrased, and people would think that we were too. But we accept this when
it comes from the people of big talk country.

And that is what I think bothers me most. I would like to see more Swedes take up
this space. Denise, in my opinion, does not fit into this context. Her talk is one
among hundreds of similar talks. I think Ã˜redev should be more than an American
miniature conference. Instead of this, watch Alexander Bard's keynote from 2012.
He may be too much at times, but at least he has context.

Then, after watching it, we can go out and change the world together, because you
are awesome, I am awesome and that's apparently all that is needed, and then let's
watch another inspiring video, watch it a second time, then stand up, spin around,
talk on command, because you are the masters of the future and you can change the
world and will change the world, so go out there and be awesome. 

Change the wooooooooorld!