---
title:  "Matthew McCollough: The third wave of artfulness in code"
date: 	2013-11-11 18:30:00 +0100
categories: conferences
tags: 	oredev
---


Oh, my f*****g GOD, I was not prepared for this.

Matthew McCollough from GitHub made my day by blowing me away, leaving me tumbled
in the hotel lobby for a good while after the keynote ended.

Matthew started his session being the target of the (actually) funny presenter's
jokes. Working at GitHub as he does, they went through his GitHub account as his
CV. A fun take, as blank spots in the commit graph instantly showed when Matthew
was slacking off. I mean, is the birth of a daughter an excuse for letting a day
in the graph go blank?

The presentation that followed was a perfectly composed one, where Matthew piled
perfect analogies on top of each other. Comparing early cave man paintings with
early code man practices, Matthew nailed the theme of the year - The Arts. Cave
men paintings are crude, but fascinating...but why do we find paintings that few
artists of today would be proud to call their own interesting? Leading on, using
child analogies to illustrate how frameworks, patterns and our tendency to talk
about the right way to do things, are more or less the same as the child pointing
out that the young kid's painting is just wrong...the young kid replying that "It
is not wrong, it is just new".

Matthew then talked about sustained creative work and the absurdity of us working
as creative machines, expected to adjust our creative machinery to fit a certain
clock cycle. Our line of work is indeed a challenging one. Most of us never turn
of this creative engine.

At home, Matthew has made a lot of stuff available for his kids to explore, like
a bunch of instruments without instructions. He compared the noise his kids make
while exploring these instruments with the noise being made by engineers as they
try out new techniques.

Matthew told us about him being a smart-ass in school, answering math questions
with correct, but not expected answers. He got told that his answers were wrong,
when in fact they were correct, but not in the way the teacher expected or wanted.
This is not exclusive for school. For Matthew, it repeated itself during a high
profile job interview, where "right" was solving a code test by writing code the
way the interviewers wanted it. Matthew put down the pen and walked out.

Wash, rinse and repeat.

Matthew gave us more amazing analogies, like how we believe that some of world's
greatest artworks were painted in one perfect stroke, when in fact most of them
(Mona Lisa, for instance) was painted over numerous times by DaVinci, who never
found his work to become perfect. Why is it that artists can complete their craft
over time, leaving us with a final, perfect piece of art, when we are so afraid
of making mistakes ourselves.

"I've never seen a company giving the biggest bonus to the person that made the
most mistakes and told everyone about them." Indeed.

So, could this be the best keynote I have ever attended? It might as well be, but
I think I will have to re-watch it in a while to be able to answer that question.
[Check out the video](http://oredev.org/oredev2013/2013/videos.html) and tell me
what you think.

